[Music]
welcome to b2b marketing and more with
your host Pam dinner as leading
marketing and sales enablement
strategist keynote speaker and author
Pam created this podcast to share of
professional experience and insights and
help you to be a great fee to be
marketer you enjoy the podcast please
share it with your colleagues and leave
a review on iTunes now let's get started
[Music]
hello welcome to another episode be to
be marketing and more with Pam dinner
this is Pam here's my podcast that I
share my no house and templates I want
to help you seem b2b marketing from
different lights and to be a better b2b
marketer so let's get started for
today's episode I want to continue the
series of how to create a solid
messaging framework I know I know can
you believe it I'm talking about
messaging framework part number four
it's kind of ridiculous and I fully
understand that this is also a niche
topic in marketing on top of it not
everyone is creating messaging or
talking points and this may not be your
job I get it but as a modern marketer I
think it's important to have a holistic
view of marketing or how marketing is
done a messaging creation in a way is as
important as content creation and
storytelling so just to quickly remind
everybody on episode 101 I talk about
what is a messaging framework and the
process of crafting a solid one episode
102 I share a product specific template
and on episode 103 I went through a
thought leadership messaging template so
if you are interesting templates product
specific go to episode 102 if you are
doing a thought leadership storytelling
you should check out the messaging
template on episode 103
for this specific episode I want to talk
about messaging framework again but for
a secondary or low cost low volume or
low cost high volume products I have
several listeners ask me Pam my company
sells many many products do I need to
create you know messaging framework for
every single one of them that will be a
lot of work I know no you don't you
really don't need to create messaging
framework for every single product and
the messaging framework I share with you
on episode 102 is really for hero
products I call them hero products which
is the primary products right is the
primary products that sales a marketing
focus on to bring the most dollar to the
company and I understand that your
company may sell many other products and
you need to showcase these products on
your websites or even on your print
catalogs I get it yes a lot of
industries still do print catalogs
including IKEA imagine that so if you
think about it most of ecommerce sites
they have templates already right that
you need to fill out in order to
showcase your products on your website
use that templates as a substitute for
your messaging framework right that's
what I would do
don't create something new so the
template is likely to have the following
elements the name of the product
description of the product usually you
need about like a 2 or 3 short statement
to talk about what that product is
product features right again two or
three bullet points product benefits
again two or three bullet points and the
product dimensions and this is very
critical if you think about it if you
look at any kind of e-commerce site it
doesn't matter is clothing furniture
blanket e or any other consumer
electronics they always have a product
dimension field so have that you have
that information ready and The Alibi is
images right so for any kind of print
catalogs or any kind of e-commerce size
and they have multiple images to
showcase the product from a different
ingles so that's pretty much the image
that's pretty much the the fields that
you need to fill out but I would also
add another column though to show the
product owners and also the business
groups so you know whom to track down
when you need to update and refresh the
information does that make sense so if
you think about it the messaging
template is really product level
information that you classify your
products online and offline so that's
easy for your customer to serve to see
and the search so very quick takeaway
number one not every product means big
product specific messaging templates
that I described on episode one and to
prioritize which products need the
in-depth messaging templates based on
your marketing budget and the sales
focus number two if you have many
products think about where these
products are showcased are they display
online or offline what information is
needed for online and offline formats
you know maybe a forum already exists
I'm pretty sure if you have ecommerce
site or the print catalogs the forms is
already there
number three identify an owner for each
product if you need to update or refresh
the information you know where to go and
whom to talk to
so this is really the last episode about
messaging framework like I said not
everyone does messaging framework but
it's important to get a sense how it's
done if you need one day you can always
come to my website to find the templates
or reach out to me anytime
again this is b2b marketing and more
with Pam dinner I hope you enjoyed this
short episode finally one episode is
shorter than I don't know seven minutes
so more you to be marketing topics to
come in the future again I would really
appreciate that you can like or
subscribe my podcast thank you thank you
thank you so much in the meantime have
waiting if you enjoyed this podcast we
share it with your colleagues and leave
review on iTunes
[Music]